[RM Ch5] Load Balancer Requirements (#2907)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter05.rst

**Table 5-7a:** Service examples.

Platform Services - Load Balancer Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The table below specifies a set of requirements for the Load Balancer platform service.

+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Reference  | Requirement                                            | Notes                                       |
+============+========================================================+=============================================+

> | pas.lb.001 | The Load Balancer must support resource scaling        |                                             |

Author: @rgstori Workload -- being corrected.

+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.002 | The Load Balancer must support resource resiliency     |                                             |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.003 | The Load Balancer must support scaling and resiliency  | Define local environment: within a subnet,  |
|            | in the local environment                               | tenant network, Availability Zone of a      |

> |            |                                                        | cloud, ...                                  |

Reviewer: "Define local environment" reads like a requirement on the load balancer ;-).

Author: @ulikleber It is

+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.004 | The Load Balancer should support resiliency in the     |                                             |

> |            | environment                                            |                                             |

Reviewer: Which environment now?

Reviewer 2: I think a word is missing from here.

Author: Duplicate of 003 -- deleted

+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.007 | The Load Balancer must create event logs with the      |                                             |
|            | appropriate severity levels (catastrophic,             |                                             |
|            | critical, ...)                                         |                                             |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.008 | The Load Balancer must support monitoring of endpoints |                                             |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.009 | The Load Balancer must support Direct Server           | Other modes OK as well, but DSR should      |
|            | Return (DSR)                                           | always be supported                         |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

> | pas.lb.010 | The Load Balancer must state-full TSP load-balancing   |                                             |

Reviewer 3: typo
```suggestion
| pas.lb.010 | The Load Balancer must stateful TCP load-balancing   |                                             |
```

+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.011 | The Load Balancer must support UDP load-balancing      |                                             |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| pas.lb.012 | The Load Balancer must support load-balancing and      |                                             |
|            | correct handling of fragmented packets                 |                                             |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

> | pas.lb.013 | The Load Balancer should support state-full SCTP       |                                             |

Reviewer: Typo as in pas.lb.010
```suggestion
| pas.lb.013 | The Load Balancer should support stateful SCTP       |                                             |
```

|            | load-balancing                                         |                                             |
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

> | pas.lb.014 | The Load Balancer should support state-full M-TCP      |                                             |

Reviewer: Typo as in pas.lb.010
```suggestion
| pas.lb.014 | The Load Balancer should support stateful M-TCP      |                                             |
```

**Table 5-7a:** Service examples.

Platform Services - Load Balancer Requirements

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: This should underline "Requirements" also in the title.

Author: @CsatariGergely Thanks - Done

The table below specifies a set of requirements for the Load Balancer platform service.

> +------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: - Grid between the rows is missing
- Cell separator missing from the first column in the 2nd line of pas.lb.007
- Cell separator is missing from the first column in pas.lb.013 - pas.lb.017
- Can you please wrap it to 120 chars?

Reference  Requirement                                                           Notes
========== ===================================================================== ============================================================================
pas.lb.001 The Load Balancer must support resource scaling	
pas.lb.002 The Load Balancer must support resource resiliency	
pas.lb.003 The Load Balancer must support scaling and resiliency in the local    Define local environment: within a subnet, tenant network, Availability 

>            environment                                                           Zone of a cloud, ...

Reviewer 2: I believe you need to use grid tables for multi line cells.

Author: @CsatariGergely In the preview it renders properly

Author: @CsatariGergely Done

> pas.lb.004 The Load Balancer should support resiliency in the global environment	

Reviewer 2: What is the meaning of this in technical terms?

Author: @CsatariGergely Made a minor edit -- please review. Thanks

Reviewer 2: Now it reads: `The Load Balancer should support resiliency in the  environment` I think it is either redundant to pas.lb.003 or needs more clarification.

Author: @CsatariGergely One is about resources and the other for the environment.

pas.lb.005 The Load Balancer must support OSI Level 3/4 load-balancing and may   OSI Level 3 load-balancing decision on the source and destination IP 

>            support Level 7 Load Balancing                                        addresses and OSI Level 4 TCP port numbers. <br>OSI Level 7 (application

Reviewer 2: Please do not use raw html, like <br>. You can enforce new lines with the [block syntax](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#line-blocks) as it is explained [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13504595/multi-line-table-cell-in-restructuredtext).

Author: @CsatariGergely Thanks - Done. Please review.

pas.lb.006 The Load Balancer must, at a minimum, support round-robin load-
           balancing	
pas.lb.007 The Load Balancer must create event logs with the appropriate 
           severity levels (catastrophic, critical, ...)	
pas.lb.008 The Load Balancer must support monitoring of endpoints	
pas.lb.009 The Load Balancer must support Direct Server Return (DSR)             Other modes OK as well, but DSR should always be supported
pas.lb.010 The Load Balancer must state-full TSP load-balancing	
pas.lb.011 The Load Balancer must support UDP load-balancing	
pas.lb.012 The Load Balancer must support load-balancing and correct handling 
           of fragmented packets 	
pas.lb.013 The Load Balancer may support state-full SCTP load-balancing	
pas.lb.014 The Load Balancer may support state-full M-TCP load-balancing	
pas.lb.015 The L7 Load Balancer may support HTTP2	
pas.lb.016 The L7 Load Balancer may support HTTP3	
pas.lb.017 The L7 Load Balancer may support QUIC
========== ===================================================================== ============================================================================

> **Table 5-7b:** Platform Services - Load Balancer Requirements.

Reviewer 2: Are there any open source solutions implementing these requirements?

Author: @CsatariGergely Not every requirement but then these are not mandatory requirements. The Previous section lists the services and examples of open-source sw.

Reviewer 4: @CsatariGergely, are you satisfied with the reposne form @pgoyal01 ?  If yes, please approve.  Otherwise, let us discuss what to do.

Reviewer 2: I really think that Anuket should define requirements implementable using open source components. I do not think to be usefull to require something (even with should) in one document and define exceptions in an other one. 

By checking Octavia and NGINX as references in open source I think the following requirements are not supported in open source: 

- stateful TCP load-balancing (only NGINX supports it) 
- stateful M-TCP
- HTTP3
- QUIC

I suggest to remove these requirements.

Also Level 7 is too generic in pas.lb.015, the requirement should be about http and https

**Table 5-7a:** Service examples.

Platform Services - Load Balancer REquirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The tbale below specifies a set of requirements for the Load Balances platform service.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 16, 30, 30
   :header-rows: 1

* - Ref #
  - Requirement
  - Notes
* - pas.lb.001
  - The Load Balancer must support resource scaling
  - 
* - pas.lb.002
  - The Load Balancer must support resource resiliency
  - 
* - pas.lb.003
  - The Load Balancer must support scaling and resiliency in the local environment
  - Define local environment: within a subnet, tenant network, Az of a cloud, ...
* - pas.lb.004
  - The Load Balancer should support resiliency in the global environment
  - 
* - pas.lb.005

>   - The Load Balancer must support either OSI Level 3/4 and/or Level 7 load-balancing.

Reviewer 3: I would suggest to have L4 as mandatory and L7 as optional.
in Kubernetes,  Ingress controllers (L7) depends on a L4 LB anyway, so wouldn't exist without it as a standalone L7 LB entity

```suggestion
  - The Load Balancer must support OSI Level 3/4 load-balancing and may support Level 7 Load Balancing.
```

pas.lb.008 The Load Balancer must support monitoring of endpoints	
pas.lb.009 The Load Balancer must support Direct Server Return (DSR)                                                   Other modes OK as well, but DSR should always be supported
pas.lb.010 The Load Balancer must state-full TSP load-balancing	
pas.lb.011 The Load Balancer must support UDP load-balancing	
pas.lb.012 The Load Balancer must support load-balancing and correct handling of fragmented packets 	
pas.lb.013 The Load Balancer may support state-full SCTP load-balancing	
pas.lb.014 The Load Balancer may support state-full M-TCP load-balancing	
pas.lb.015 The L7 Load Balancer may support HTTP2	
pas.lb.016 The L7 Load Balancer may support HTTP3	
pas.lb.017 The L7 Load Balancer may support QUIC
========== =========================================================================================================== ==================================================================================================================================================================================================

> **Table 5-7b:** Platform Services - Load Balancer Requirementss.

Reviewer 5: @pgoyal01 Typo -> requirements
The linewrap must be 120 characters
